CertCheck.me is a small web project by Tactical Technology Collective that explains the role of the certificate when you attempt to communicate securely with a website through HTTPS. It will help you read security warnings and understand the risks associated with unverified certificates. It also demonstrates how someone with the ability to monitor your Internet traffic could manipulate a site's certificate in order to collect information that is supposed to be encrypted, such as your password and any sensitive data you might be sending to or receiving from the website.

When you browse websites online, there is a lot happening in the background. If you access an HTTPS website, for example, your connection is encrypted. You may have heard about "certificates," which are an important part of how this sort of encryption works. In order to reassure your web browser that you are not accidentally exchanging (encrypted) information with an eavesdropper, HTTPS websites will present you with a certificate that has been signed by a trusted Certificate Authority.

This certificate tells your browser that the encryption "key" you are about to rely on to protect your traffic actually belongs to the HTTPS website you are visiting. Without this reassurance, your browser will worry that an attacker might be reading everything you send to or receive from that website... and then passing it along (re-encrypted) to its original destination. Worse yet, in the absence of a trusted certificate, there would be no way for you, or the website, to know that you were being spied on. This is called a Man-in-the-Middle attack.

Fortunately, your web browser is pretty good at recognising suspicious certificates. But, when it gets nervous, it's not so good at explaining why. So, we invite you to play with this website and test your browser to see how it reacts to the following scenarios. A few of them simulate attacks, but don't worry, they are completely harmless. They are just a way to for you to familiarise yourself with how your web browser describes different types of certificates.
